Welcome, this is the 14th Horoite Talk and this time the title is "Holo Lotta Lots".
And I will talk about the lots.
So the lots, which are very useful tools in astrology, at least there are some people
who say that they are very useful tools.
And it seems that at the beginnings of Hellenistic astrology, lots
constituted one of the three major tools to judge fields of life, topics of life and big
questions of life, the various fields, various areas of life.
One of these tools were the plants, of course.
The other tools were the plants.
the places or as we call them in modern astrology the houses and the lots were the third major
tools that were used to judge different walks of life. But let's start with some definitions
because I guess that this is very important to do this time. Yeah so what is a lot?
A lot is a calculated point.
So I would like to use my tool to be able to show you what I mean.
Right, but here we go.
So...
Yeah, so, so the tool in this time, I would like to show you the definition for that.
So the definition is that we have two astrological concepts like two planets, for example, and
we measure the distance between these two planets or other concepts, and then we project
the distance or the interval between them from the ascendant. So for example here we can see
chart which was cast for my place exactly one hour ago so it was still
diurnal chart. Now it should be a nocturnal chart. And for example if we measure from
the sun to the moon, because these are the two constituent parts of the lot that we are
we are looking for, then this
the same distance should be projected from the ascendant to get the lot. Yeah in this case it is
going to be the so-called lot of fortune. Yeah this is the best noun of all the lots a lot of fortune
and this was as it seems that that was the the earliest of the lots and
This calculation mathematically looks like this here.
So we have the position of the moon, and from the position of the moon expressed in degrees, we subtract the position of the sun.
In this way we get the distance from the Sun to the Moon in the zodiacal order and we project
this from the ascendant by adding this interval or this result from the Moon.
the degree of the ascendant. We have very good softwares to calculate
the lots, very good programs online or programs that you need to pay for.
But these can be problematic sometimes.
because all these programs calculate the lots that are predefined by their developers.
Sometimes they allow you to add your lots, but it is not always possible.
Now, one more thing is that as I told you that the two constituent parts,
so in here is B and C can be virtually anything,
So they can be planets, they can be angles, they can be in later astrology, they can be
place, cusps, lots, other lots, notable degrees of zodiacal signs, for example, the exaltation
degrees of the sun or the moon or even degrees like the fifteenth degree of
of a cancer or a degree of a notable fixed star.
But A, the point from which we project the interval
is typically the ascendant.
Sometimes we find other points to project from,
but this is typically the ascendant.
And one more thing is also important about the calculation is that whereas it seems to
me that from the very beginnings the idea was to calculate the Lodz-Pied degree, at
least on the theoretical level, until Ptolemaic tables became widespread in the world.
Hellenistic astrology and used by astrologers.
Astrologers hadn't had the opportunity, not always at least,
to use precise tables.
And so they had to rely on simplified calculations sometimes.
That is, they had to calculate the lots only by sign,
which is a very, very simple thing to do, actually.
And it also seems that there were some lots that were
specifically designed for becoming lots by sign only and not by degree.
I will give you a couple of examples when the time comes.
But if you would like to imitate this, you can do it very quickly.
in a very simple way, very simple calculation.
So for example, if I would like to cast
the Lot of Fortune by sign,
all I need to do is to start from the sun
as if he is in the first place.
Then I count down the signs from the Sun and if I just look at this chart
I will discover that the moon is in the 11th
place
from the Sun so and in reality
the Lot of Fortune will also
fall in the 11th place from the ascendant. Yeah so that's very simple you see you look at the sun
You
you come down until the moon and you have you already have in which place from the ascendant
the uh this indeed the lot by sign should fall.
Okay, so but let's go on and let's see the next thing.
Let's look at the origins of the lots.
Because in this talk I would like to focus more
on the origins and the historical developments
and it's very important to see
what the original ideas were.
Now, as it seems, at least this is the impression that the surviving sources give me, that the
idea of the lots, especially the idea of the lot of fortune,
was developed by someone who used the pen name of
pen name Necepso and composed the so-called book 13 of Necepso.
Now when it happened is quite uncertain but it must have happened before
um
the first century BCE because we have some charts, birth charts surviving from the early
first century BCE in which the Lot of Fortune is already used. Not only the Lot of Fortune
but also the Lot of Fate which is a counterpart of the Lot of Fortune, it looks like a later
So I would say that this data suggests that maybe the idea was developed sometime in the
mid or early second century BC, but we are uncertain about that.
Why is it called the 13th book of Necapso?
Why?
Well, we don't know.
It is possible that there was an earlier corpus of text, astrological texts, to which a later
book was added and the author behind the name of Nacapso was the one who developed the idea
of a lot.
Yeah.
and exposed the idea of lots first time in this book.
It also looks like there was a later book,
a commentary composed by someone
on this very next of let's say Necapso.
And this was the
work that bore the title "Horoi" or "Definitions" and it was ascribed to Petosiris.
So we have really few sources, few fragments of these texts.
And most of these fragments come from Vettel's Valence, so we don't really have the opportunity
to compare different fragments and to see whether these texts that Valence had in the
second century were genuine or they were...
later versions of some earlier texts. But what we see is that these are the texts,
Capsule's book 13 and Pastosiris' definitions, obviously a commentary on the former that speak
about the Lot of Fortune.
Now, what a Lot of Fortune or what general lots do?
A Lot of Fortune itself is the indicator of bodily health
and material prosperity, as I have here in the slide.
So these are the primary meanings of the Lot of Fortune.
And in the interpretation,
astrologers looked at the place position of the lot. They also looked at in which sign it fell.
And what is even more important that the domicile rulers or domicile lords of the lots
the questions indicated by the issues indicated by the lots were positive in a given nativity or negative.
So for example in this case if an astrologer looked at the lot of fortune,
the astrologer could find that a lot of fortune fell into the 11th
place which was in general a positive sign at least we can say that by falling into the
into the place called good fate or good diamond it had very nice indications and for judging whether
more positive indications or significations could be added.
They looked at the domicile ruler that is the moon.
In this case, as the lot falls in cancer.
And they looked at the fact that the lord of
the moon is the moon.
the lot and the lot were. In opposition maybe that has indicated some tension but also they
And they looked at the fact that the lord of the moon is the moon.
looked at the other positions and aspects with other planets especially with the malefics.
So that was the way how they judged these questions and as I mentioned Lot of Fortune was
especially wealth. But a lot of fortune was also used in different other techniques, including
techniques for assessing the length of life. And also some predictive techniques. For example,
the Vettius Valens says famous or notorious so-called zodiac releasing, which is a modern
and in which the lot of fortune or its counterpart,
a lot of fate was sort of released,
sort of directed throughout the zodiac.
Now, normally, we have a formula for the
for a given lot like we have the formula I've already shown for a lot of fortune
the
but in some sources there are some indications that the formula should be reversed
for knight charts or knight nativities or even knight inceptions.
because for example, a lot of fortune was also used in Inceptions.
Among others, it could be used for assessing the real intention of the Quarant.
What this reversing means? Reversing means that here we have the formula,
ascendant plus the moon minus the sun here. Now if we go for reversing we
exchange the positions of them of the sun and the moon so we will go with
ascendant plus the sun and the moon and of course all these positions are
understood in degrees.
I would like to address this question but first let's look at the source text of Nacapso
in the format and it survived in the formats in the versions it survived to see whether
it survived.
We can have any sort of ideas what he meant with the formula of the auto fortune.
So let's see what it says.
So one version is by Vettius Valens.
who in book two and in book nine sort of quotes in a capsule.
The interesting thing is that there are minor variations between the two quotations, which have the number text.
33 and 34 in my collection of the capsule and petocirrhosis fragments.
But these differences won't bother us very much because they don't really
you
attach or they are not really related to anything that can be headache for us.
But let's see what it says.
Okay.
So what the text says is that the next in order, which is zodiacal order,
for those born by day,
[BLANK_AUDIO]
which is found in one variant in book nine,
you will have to count accurately,
which means by degree, from the sun to the moon,
then to measure off or to make the variant text,
the same interval from the hour marker backward.
And the variant text doesn't say backward, but it says "reversely".
Okay, so what does this want from us?
The counting goes in zodiacal order, that's okay.
Or for a day birth, we count from
from the day birth to the day birth.
the from the sun to the moon okay and we measure off the same interval from the hour marker
So, we count from the day birth to the day birth.
but it says backward or inversely which would be something like this
Yeah.
Now normally this is understood as referring to the nocturnal for the reversed formula.
Okay.
Now if you look at the text you won't find any reference to nocturnal births.
What it says here is...
that you count from the sun to the moon
and then you count reversely or backward
from the hour marker.
So what it suggests is that even the diagonal formula
for the lot of fortune is wrong.
So we should calculate from the hour marker
the moon to the sun, which would be the easier way and to measure this in the zodiacal order.
And we would get a lot of fortune and it would be a lot of fortune both by day and night.
Yeah.
Now this interpretation.
would be valid solely on the ground of this text,
at least as it stands now, right?
But this would contradict to all the noun
horoscopic examples that we have, actually,
because in these horoscopic examples,
what we see is that by day,
the lot of fortune is calculated as the distance from the sun to the moon.
And by night, this is calculated as a distance from the moon to the sun.
Okay.
Fortunately, we have another version which looks like not verbatim notation.
but the paraphrases from Necapsus source text.
This is preserved by the fifth or sixth century anonymous
Neoplatonist commentary on Ptolemies Tetrabiblos.
And what it says is that by day count from the sun to the moon.
Okay, so far so good.
And count down the same interval from the hour marker and toward the following signs.
Okay, so all right.
Here what we do is here we have this interval.
right, and then we will follow the
So that could order from descendant. So we come from here and reach a
Lot of fortune. That's very good
By night, of course
We should do
Something different because it says but by night reverse lay
Okay. Now the question here is that, all right, so one thing is quite clear that there was
an expression in the original wording that is read backward in Greek, "empalin" in some
manuscripts and it was read reversely.
or Annapalene in other manuscripts. Valens mentions both readings. The anonymous Neoplatonist
on the other hand mentions only reversely Annapalene and he
he comments Ptolemy's text,
who says that in this case,
reversely means going in the other direction in general.
Okay.
But at least, even if this version,
is sort of problematic because it is not a verbatim quotation and also it just uses one possible reading, manuscript reading.
It looks less corrupt than the first one because in this case we clearly see that there was some sort of distinction between
diurnal nativities and nocturnal nativities.
Maybe the thing is that Valens quotes
Necapsus' text with an omission.
So maybe what he means is,
"Next in order for those born by day,
"you will have to count accurately from the sun to the moon
"than to measure off
the same interval from the hour marker,
but by night, backward.
Yeah.
So if we compare the two texts,
maybe this reading and also together with the other sources
we have actual horoscopes.
This sort of reading sounds more meaningful
than the form we have in the violence is text.
Okay, but from this we can have a number of options and at least it looks like
Hellenistic astrologers had these number of options. So what can we do? What do we do by night?
Reversing or no reversing? This is the big question.
Right, so the majority opinion is
that backward means that this time we don't count from the Sun to the Moon,
but we count from the Moon to the Sun. Okay?
And that's it. Yeah. Or we can also calculate it in the other way that backward means that
Uh, we still calculate from the sun to the moon, but then this distance is measured backwards.
The result is the same.
We will have.
by night, we will have the sun in the third place.
Now this chart that you see here is a nocturnal chart
and this was made up for, this was cast for the beginning
of my talk, for my position.
So now the sun is under the horizon,
of course this is nocturnal.
So that's why
We won't find the Lot of Fortune somewhere here, but we will find it here.
Okay, so this is the majority option. This is what many astrologers, including Dorotheus,
Valens, Apollos, Rhetorius, and others describe.
And this is the version we also find in the actual horoscopes, which number to about 40.
Yeah, so we have about 40 horoscopes using the
[no audio]
a lot of fortune and many of them are nocturnal horoscopes and in these nocturnal horoscopes
with some exceptions, yeah very few exceptions, we will find this reversed formula.
Okay but what is the other
um
faction. What do they say?
Dolomite says that reversely is a backward projection from the ascendant.
um
So what we basically says is that, uh,
we,
sort of do everything in the other direction.
So we come from the sun to the moon
against zodiacal order,
and we cast this distance again against zodiacal order.
In this case, please ignore these blue
and red lines circles here.
So please only follow my lead
because the other one can be distracting.
This is also a valid calculation,
but this is not what Ptolemy seems to suggest.
What it says is that, okay, we do exactly what we do by day,
but we go in the other direction.
Yeah.
Which means that finally, in fact, we
will get the same results as in a diurnal horoscope.
Now, this is not only--
Pallamy who says this, although he is the most illustrious proponent of this idea.
But actually the petoseries commentary says the same.
So it says something like no matter in which direction you measure the direction, the interval
from the sun to the moon.
Uh.
you will get the same results by day and night.
Yeah.
And there is a first century astrologer
who we don't know anything about.
But one thing that he cast a horoscope
And this horoscope, he is said in a Nocturnal Horoscope that a lot of fortune fell into this and that sign.
And this is the right position of the lot of fortune and not the one that the majority thinks that the lot of fortune is.
And then this, and if we look at this horoscope, we will see that what he proposes that we should
use the diurnal formula for nocturnal births as well. So basically we have the opposition
in this question, the opposition which argues that we shouldn't
um
reverse the Nocturna formula for the Lot of Fortune. Now this is an important thing, right?
Because a Lot of Fortune is an important part of the horoscope and as statistically speaking
um
half of the nativities are Nocturnal and half of the Inceptions are Nocturnal.
It is not insignificant whether the
a lot of fortune falls say into cancer into the 11th place having the moon as its lord or it falls
into scorpio having in the third place having mars as its lord.
which can be in a completely different place of the horoscope. Now, I guess that you know that the
modern people follow this lead or that lead, especially as Ptolemy's interpretation became
widespread in the early modern European astrology, which
wanted to go back to the astrologer's origins and discover that Ptolemy was one of the most ancient
astrologers. Even they told that Ptolemy was a sort of an archetypical
astrologer and whatever Ptolemy suggested like non reversing had to be followed or they
thought that they had this these ideas should be followed so what we know that from let's
say the.
[00:16:29]
15th or more likely from the 16th century on, unreversed lots of fortune was used and the
[silence]
[00:16:33]
[00:16:34]
[00:16:35]
astrologers who followed this tradition were
[inaudible]
completely surprised when at the end of the 20th century,
[00:16:29]
[silence]
[00:16:33]
[end of audio]
[00:16:39]
there were people who started to discover medieval
astrology, Hellenistic astrology,
and started to use a reversed formula.
So there are still people who say,
one of some people say that, oh, for Nocturna charts,
this is a very good idea to reverse
because this is the original thing, it works for me.
Others say that no, it shouldn't be reversed,
and this works for me.
Okay.
Now this is always a big question that this,
what we can do with this, this or if ideas.
Okay.
But if it is not enough,
there is a third idea,
which is Valence's attempt to fix this contradiction.
And I think that's a good point.
because he also quoting Nacapso and quoting the so-called Petosiris commentary, he sees
that at least if we accept both of these texts, including Petosiris' text, that we are not
supposed to reverse the formula by night.
He tries to...
[Pause]
to find a compromise and he proposes that
By night we should only use the nocturnal formula if the moon is above
The horizon so is on is in the sky. Yeah
Of course, the sun will be under the horizon,
because this is the only way how the chart could be nocturnal.
But if we find that the moon is also under the horizon,
then we can say, all right, now the moon is invisible.
So we could stay with the diurnal formula
and not to change it.
OK.
This is very nice.
uh, ingenious idea it would be. He even finds some, um, quite obscure passages, uh, about
the sun's, uh, uh, uh, primary role in the, in, in controlling the universe, uh, to,
to, to, uh, confirm his idea. Uh, but actually he never uses his own, uh,
formula, hybrid formula.
So he always goes with the normal diagonal formula
and the reversed nocturnal formula.
OK, so how can we get out of this?
Maybe you say that, all right, this is not very important.
I have my own preferences and things like that.
But--
No, I don't think that this would be a right thinking.
What I think is that it's a very important thing to address,
maybe the most important thing to address that, how could we
look out of this mess?
And how can we--
If it is possible, how can we make meaning for lots?
Okay, so let's see what we can consider.
We can try to consider neck capsules intentions,
which is not a very, very simple task
as multiple witnesses states that neck capsules
uh texts were obscure now we don't know whether the texts surviving under the name or
circulating under the name of of nakhapso at the time were written by one person or not
that's very unlikely basically
What is likely is that maybe book 13 that discussed a lot of fortune and some more things
were written by one person.
This would be a really sensible hypothesis.
But still.
Even that book looks like it was obscure.
but they are not interested in the
And this obscuration was sort of intentional,
which has a long tradition in astrology, right?
So even Mesopotamian scholars added some remark
at the end of the tablets that don't show it
to the ones who are not initiated,
But of course, if they are initiated,
you can show the content to them.
Now this can cause some headache for us
because there are sometimes terms in Babylonian tablets
that we just don't understand.
So even if we understand the word itself,
we don't really know what it refers to.
Now the same can be true in some cases.
for Necepso's ideas.
Okay, so I will try my best to uncover
the secret of Necepso's words,
but of course this is not definitive,
so some other solutions are also imaginable.
Okay, we should also
analyze or or to look closer look at this thing I'm a little bit more closer
what I mean is what is the relation of fortune to the moon yeah because
It is often said in some forms that the formula,
you
the fortune is related to the moon.
Some sources it is even called the lot of the moon.
Okay, we should also look at fortune's role
as an alternative ascendant, which is Ptolemy's idea,
who calls fortune lunar ascendant
as opposed to the solar ascendant
that should be the ascendant itself.
And we should also take a look at the Lot of Fate, which is called a Lot of Diamond
or Lot of Spirit or something like that.
A Lot of Genius, I also read that, which is sometimes posed as a solar counterpart of
the Lunar Lot of Fortune.
Okay, these are different things, different threads to do investigations upon.
But even now you see that there is sort of, let's say, a minor contradiction between some
understandings.
There is Ptolemy who admits to fortune only.
but rejects all the other lots.
On the other hand there are some astrologers, and this is the majority basically,
for whom
there is fortune and there is this counterpart
fate.
And basically fate is what it would be a lot of fortune if it was a diurnal horoscope or vice versa.
So basically the diurnal formula of a lot of fortune is used for a lot of fate and the nocturna
by night and the Nocturne formula of the Lot of Fortune is used for a Lot of Fate by day.
Okay, but the contradiction here is that for Ptolemy, Fortune is the lunar ascendant and the
real ascendant is the solar ascendant. So the lunar-solar opposition
is framed, is established in this way. A contradiction or a sort of opposition between
fortune and the ascendant. Whereas whenever there is a solar counterpart,
in the other sources, the solar counterpart is fate.
So now there is another lot.
Okay, now these are mutually exclusive
understandings of the matter.
And actually,
this contradiction should be resolved in some way.
So,
whether we can join to Ptolemy in some ways,
whether we can discard Ptolemy's views
and go with the majority option.
Okay, but let's see, let's go one by one.
So let's start with the Capsule's intentions
and let's go toward the solution as much as it is possible.
Okay, so,
uh,
We have looked at the source text
and what problems they pose.
And also we have seen Ptolemy's ideas
how this reverse lay should be understood,
so that we are going toward the other direction.
And we will find in a miraculous way
Surprise, surprise, the same lot by night.
So what can we do with this?
My idea is that even if Ptolemy is right
and even if we assume that Necepso was intentionally
obscure, it sounds too much.
So what point does it make to say that you need to do something differently by night
if you actually don't do anything differently by night?
So yeah, maybe you do the calculation differently.
that, okay, you count in the other direction or something like that, but why is it important?
So if I want to define a point, it is sort of pointless to distract.
or to misdirect my readers into doubts in this way.
So if we just look at Nacapso's intentions,
we try to, at least I try to think with his intentions.
add, then this inversely should direct us to reversing by night.
So whatever this reversing means and in whatever form it should be imagined,
the result is that by night we calculate from the moon to the sun and we
we project this in this way or we calculate from the sun to the moon and we go backwards
so basically we will have the same results yeah but at least we will have
in this case we will have the lot of fortune under the horizon and not above the horizon
as it would be if it was a diurnal chart
Okay, so this is what we can derive from Necapso's words.
What can we see if we look at the fortunes
in relation to the moon?
As I said that for Ptolemy,
the Lot of Fortune is a sort of a lunar ascendant
in the way
That what the ascendant is for the moon is fortune
Sorry, what is the ascendant for the Sun is fortune for the moon
Yeah, okay. Yes, so solar there is a solar ascendant and and the the Sun has a certain
relationship with this ascendant. In this case what we see is that the Hassan is not in opposition
anymore with the ascendant because it is already under the horizon.
So we should have a point for the moon with which the moon has the same relation.
And this will be here.
So if this is the lunar ascendant, so to speak, then there would be a lunar descendant here.
and this distance between the lunar descendant and the moon
and the distance between the normal solar descendant and the sun would be the same.
So if this idea is original,
then we should say that there is no need for reversing by night.
Otherwise it doesn't make any sense.
Now, we don't actually know whether Ptolemy's idea is his idea or
what he is thinking.
this idea had already been there.
We don't know.
And the lunar attributes of fortune are not explicit in the
Necapso text or even in the in the Petosavris commentary, or in
any other texts, not defining but at least using the
a lot of fortune in the writings attributed to Necephas and Petosiris.
But we know that the Egyptian imagery that was related to fortune was deeply lunar.
So it would be
We can say that it is quite likely that fortune had some lunar characteristics.
But actually, as it seems, the earliest text,
the first text,
that says this explicitly is a lost text that was ascribed to a otherwise unknown early figure called Abraham
whose fragments are preserved by Firmicus Maternus and Vatius Valens
and in passage
extent in Firmicus, he says that the formula is the lot of the moon and fate is the lot
of the sun.
So what he seems to be alluding to is that
the
We don't know if this text is very early, but it might well be earlier than Dorotheus,
who is otherwise the earliest source for a lot of fortune and a lot of fate.
But it's already by him.
It was already conceptualized as sort of a pairing between a lunar and a solar lot.
Yeah.
So even if this is another tradition and Ptolemy's is a different tradition,
it's still a tradition.
we can still see that the lunar character of the Lot of Fortune seems rather plausible.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
But let's focus on this question of a lunar ascendant a little bit more.
And it is something that is not suggested only by Ptolemy but also by some other authors, especially by Valens.
Because if you read Valens' book 2, you discover that
the author of the book is not a real author.
in the second part of book two, he defines an alternative place system that starts from
He is a real author.
the Lot of Fortune, which is more or less equivalent with the normal system of places
that start from the Ascendant.
He also adds that the 11th place from the Lot of Fortune has very important significations
and he calls it a place of acquisition.
But at least it looks like he already used the
the Lot of Fortune as an alternative ascendant. Also, there is an earlier text, and this is
the
the text of Manelius, who in his book Three describes the system of so-called labors,
which is like an
alternative do decatropos in the sense that the 12 signs starting from the from fortune
are given different meanings and these different meanings look like having been used.
not in nativities, but perhaps in some
exceptional astrology or general astrology.
But at least what we see here in Manelius' text
is that
a lot of fortune is, again, is in sort of
an alternative ascendant.
So in some ways, we could still confirm Ptolemy's idea that there is a solar
[silence]
ascendant and this is contrasted in some ways with a lunar ascendant which is a lot of fortune.
But the problem here is that all these authors, including Valens and Manilius, who build up
a sort of an alternative place division system on the Lot of Fortune, reverse the formula
of the Lot of Fortune.
for the night, effectively making the nocturnal
Bottle of Fortune solar, even if it is not set.
But this is what we have.
Yeah, this is what we have.
Because in this case, if we go with the Nocturna formula,
the relation of the moon to the ascendant
will be the same as the relation of the moon to the moon.
or identical to the relation between the sun and the Lot of Fortune.
So, the relation of the moon to the ascendant
So if you see here, you see that the distance of the moon from the ascendant is the same
as the distance of the sun from the Lot of Fortune.
Yeah.
What it means is that by night the Lot of Fortune is not lunar at all.
It is quite solar.
Yeah, it is never set in any many sources.
But it looks like this is the clear implication of the reversal.
This also brings us back to the question whether the ascendant can be legitimately called solar.
And I think the answer is yes.
Something like, not really.
Because what is the definition of the ascendant?
So let's go back to the definition.
Now I don't have a diagram for that,
so it's just going to be something
that you need to imagine.
So what we have is that we have the horizon.
And we have the ecliptic somewhere.
Okay, so the ecliptic is like wobbling all around during the day, depending where you are on the surface of the Earth.
But if you're lucky, at least one thing happens, there is an intersection between the horizon and the ecliptic.
Yeah. Now this intersection is called the ascendant and this is calculated.
In this case we have an intersection of two great circles but these are circles basically.
Now the ecliptic is the imaginary path of the sun
So in this sense, the ascendant is pretty solar.
Yeah, because otherwise, otherwise the zodiac
is not a circle.
But the belt, it has a certain width, right?
We can define this as a constant, let's say 60 degrees,
like eight degrees toward the north
and eight degrees toward the south.
Because whatever happens in our lifetime,
the planets will always be within.
this width so they will be always on this belt. We can alternatively define it for actual positions
so depending on where the planet having the the highest latitude this is found we set the
the edge of the zodiac in that latitude.
the zodiac is a
So we can also do this.
But one thing is true, that wherever or however
we define the zodiac in its width,
it's for sure that the zodiac is a
that if we look at the intersection of a belt and a horizon,
this will belong to not only one degree,
not only to one degree and one minute,
or one given minute,
but there will be a sort of an interval
of degrees that are affected by the presence of the horizon.
This is something I talked about, I guess it was last time, yes, when we talked about
the fixed stars, right?
So how the projection, zodiacal projection or the co-rising differs from each other.
In this case, we're talking about coal rising.
So yeah, we can say that the ascendant,
if we just focus on a very position,
then the ascendant itself, this is solar, right?
But apart from that, there is nothing solar in it.
Because,
even if in some simplification, because a horoscopic chart is not a 3D representation of the reality,
but a two-dimensional projection of what we see, and there are some simplifications in it.
Yeah, even if we find, let's say, the Moon.
or Venus or Jupiter on the ascendant, we can still say that this is where this planet rises.
So there is no actual difference between the rising of the Sun and the rising of other
planets.
all planets will rise on the ascendant.
Okay?
What is more is a disturbing phenomenon,
is that if you cast a chart and the sun is just a little bit below the ascendant,
then the sun will rise.
It doesn't mean that in reality the Sun will be under the horizon.
Okay?
So,
okay.
The causes are different.
So there is refraction which causes refraction.
a sun actually under the horizon to look like being above the horizon, but also the sun
is not a point but a disk and the diameter of the disk is half a degree, so it is not
a negligible thing.
And also we have this twilight issue.
Yeah.
that the border between the night and day is not a fixed thing.
Okay.
And this is something that I also talked about in one talk.
So to sum up,
I don't think that we really have any sort of evidence to corroborate the idea that the
ascendant should be a solar ascendant all the time and that the Lot of Fortune should
be imagined.
as a lunar object all the time.
Okay, but let's see the last point here.
The Lot of Fate.
Okay, so as I told you,
the Lot of Fate is usually called the Lot of the Sun.
And it is quite possible that Abraham was the author who introduced this.
Just one more thought about this is that I have the feeling and of course this is just a feeling, right?
So I have no hard evidence in my hand that
In the earlier time of Hellenistic astrology, the earliest texts were written by individuals who didn't really want to reveal their own real life identity and wanted to spread their ideas.
under the disquise of famous prophets, godly figures, kings, priests and people like that.
And they also wanted to, how to say, to beat their
[pause]
[silence]
rivals out of the market by selling their products on under more and more exotic
surface. Let's say that. So one thing is that you can say that you can sell your product as saying that
um
This is original ancient prime or the Egyptian wisdom.
But there might be people who say that, OK, Egyptian wisdom is fine for me, but there are more ancient cultures than the Egyptian culture.
Maybe people can think in this way.
So I guess that there were some people who also wanted to sell the product under the
disguise of other prophets, like under the name of Zoroaster, like a Persian, a sage and a mage or whatever.
And also who attributed their stuff to the Babylonians maybe.
And as it seems that there were some people who wanted or at least one person who wanted to sell the product and their product under the name of Abraham.
Yeah.
Abraham the prophet.
right? Abraham the patriarch. Yeah. So what I can imagine here is that there was the original text
of someone who wrote on the name of Necepso.
who introduced the idea of a lot of fortune.
Then there were some interpretative debates
whether this lot of fortune should be reversed by night
or should be calculated differently
but leading to the same results.
And,
and,
The one who wrote under the name of Petosiris went with the second company.
But then there was someone who under the name of Abraham
tried to defend the idea that the fortune is lunar.
But at the same time, he introduced the other lot,
the lot of fate.
That is like counterpart of the lot of fortune and which in some ways resolves
this problem whether to reverse the formula by night because what if you say
that the no reversing is acceptable then you say okay then you you can still use
Then you can you can cast another lot and if you are your lot of fortune is lunar
Then this lot is going to be a solar so that's very good
But if someone says it it is only reversing that is that is fine
And he can also say hey, this is fine, but you can still use your Diana formula
Yeah, for the day and this is going to be a counterpart of fortune.
And of course you can use the Nocturna formula for the day for a lot of fate.
But actually if we take this idea that the lot of fate is solar.
then it makes sense only if the ascendant is lunar.
Because otherwise we should say that okay this is true that the
fortune is lunar by day and fate is solar by day
but by now they should be vice versa if we reverse that.
So maybe Abraham's idea was that he wanted to join Pethoseris
with the idea that there is no reversing.
I mean, pathos-everase is interpretation of Necapsula, of course, but still trying to exploit the possibility of using the other formula for another lot.
Yeah.
And this thinking can also be imagined.
as something like, what Necapsule had in mind is that there is only one lot.
And this is called Fortune.
And this Fortune has no lunar or solar character.
by definition but actually this lot has the character of the light that is not dominant
at the moment. Let's say the out of sect or the out of faction.
light, okay?
Because by day,
the calculation leads to something obviously lunar.
And of course the moon is the out of sector,
out of faction light by day.
But by night, if we reverse it and it looks like
I kept so wanted to reverse it because as I said, otherwise it wouldn't make sense to
to to to to be so complicated.
A lot is actually solar.
But it is called fortune because if we have only one lot, then this lot can be.
solar or lunar depending on whether we are talking about the diurnal or nocturnal chart.
But from the point we split up a undifferentiated lot into a lunar lot that should be lunar
all the time and the solar lot.
Who will have fortune and faith in some forms?
I say in some forms because we can imagine them in a reversed way or in an unreversed way as well.
Yeah.
[silence]
So I know that this is really complicated but if you try to think about this, then you will see that the problem with understanding of the earliest strata of the lots is that at the beginning it is quite likely that there was only one lot.
[no audio]
And so maybe it is pointless to talk about a lunar or a solar corrector because it was a lunar and solar lot at the same time.
And splitting up only happened later.
Okay. Yeah, but let's see some practical considerations.
In practical considerations, of course, I want to talk about my own practice and my own experience and then some charts that I should show you, especially famous people and celebrities.
But what the ancient practice suggests is that we see that in the two camps there are different practices.
So, for example,
The ones who never reversed a lot, like Ptolemy, Petenius and Petosiris, they never allude to a lot of fate at all.
So basically they ignore fate. They have only fortune.
which is always a lunar knot and thank you very much.
On the other hand, the people who also include fate
in their ideas and this is Dorotheus,
this is Balins, Paulus, Rhetorius and so forth.
then they always reverse fortunate fate by night as much as we can see in the
text okay because there are some some other authors also use also allude to
to fate but we don't know if they if they reverse or not
Yeah, so it has basically two consequences. At least this practice has two consequences that
by night fortune must be solar and fate must be lunar even if we read very often that
fortune is lunar and fate is solar. And the other consequence is
which I also alluded to before,
is that there is no contrast between the ascendant,
as a solar ascendant, and a lot,
which is the lunar ascendant,
but between the two lots of fate and the lot of fortune.
Yeah.
So I guess that you are getting a little bit tired of this.
But we will get out of this quagmire very quickly.
What I think here is we need to keep in mind what we do,
actually.
OK.
So--
I think it is possible to go with Tanami's ideas as well as with the image
rarity option but we should never mix up things that do not belong together.
So in some cases we need to make a decision
whether we are going with scenario A or scenario B,
but we can't have both of them.
Okay, so if there is a reversal,
we can't claim at the same time that
fortune is always lunar
because it is going to be solar by night, okay?
And it is better to keep in mind.
So maybe,
This whole story is a little bit exaggerated, especially if we read later sources like Masha'Allah or Abu Ma'shar, who sometimes write that by day a lot of fortune is more important, but by night a lot of fate is more important.
which is completely understandable if we take the lots as indicators of the out,
or indicators related to the out of sect light and representing its role in another, in a given horoscope.
Okay.
But apart from all this, what is generally true for the two lots of fate and fortune
is that they are also lunar phase indicators.
Because by mapping the interval between the two lights and projecting it from the ascendant,
We can actually see how the lunar phase manifests itself in the horoscope.
To be absolutely concrete in this case, if you look at this chart, which is a night chart,
and you see that the Sun is under the horizon and here we can see the Moon,
This angle implies that we are in the last quarter.
This is actual now.
If it is the last quarter and it is the night,
then the lot of fortune will be the last quarter.
90 degrees or fewer from the ascendant and the same is true for the Lot of Fate but in
the way that the Lot of Fortune is going to be under the horizon and the Lot of Fate is
going to be above the horizon.
yeah so basically during a lunar month both lots so to speak will have a full round around
the zodiac yeah but this brings us to a digression
that I would like to make about the motions and the prestigions of the lots.
Okay, because sometimes this can give us some headache, right?
So, one thing is that I just mentioned that
[pause]
Both fortunate fates are lunar phase indicators and in a lunar month they make a full round
full turn in the zodiac.
But actually
[pause]
If we reverse them by night, then this is not exactly true, because in the switch of
day and night, they will exchange place with each other and they will continue their course.
But more importantly,
[inaudible]
They don't move.
They don't actually move.
So this is just an artifact that we see here.
This movement we see here.
LODs don't move at all because LODs are indicators,
in the best case.
So they fall somewhere in a given horoscope and they fall someplace else in another horoscope.
And of course we can discover some rules, but actually they don't move.
So that's why we should not...
make a fuss about the anomalous movement of some different lots, lots of fortune and faith,
because they don't make any motion at all.
So this is one thing.
The other thing is that I mentioned that some lots were cast only by sign and for example
violins also does something really interesting that I mentioned in my first Holroyd talk
that's
I'm sorry.
He calculates the Lot of Fortune by sign and by degree, too.
And in one part of his anthologies he uses, he goes with the sign-wise Lot of Fortune and the other case with the degree-wise Lot of Fortune.
And...
it happens that as it can happen that they these two versions of the same lot fall into different signs and
in some cases he goes with one and in some cases he goes with the other one and it doesn't seem to be a problem for him.
But it also brings us to the question that, okay, but is it all of this that we have lots
by sign and we have lots by degree and that's all?
Or we can move on a little bit.
And it looks like that in the...
In the...
Let's say early modern European astrology, especially toward its end in the 17th century,
there were some attempts to interpret Ptolemy and to try to grasp his idea of
of the fortune as the lunar ascendant a little bit further and to develop an even more precise
version of the lot of fortune.
Okay, I should be clearer, I guess.
So what they thought is that.
Ptolemy says that the proportion that the Sun has with the ascendant should be the same
as the proportion that the Moon has to the lot of fortune.
But how do we interpret this proportion issue?
Yeah.
Now, if we start thinking about this, this will basically lead to the same issues and
problems people have with the so-called house systems.
So that's how a three-dimensional reality could be projected into a two-dimensional
horoscope.
Yeah.
Yeah. And the famous Italian polymath, Placido, who you know by the name of Placidus, who
Okay.
So, yeah.
gave his name for a very popular modern, and not so modern actually, house system, had
an idea.
But his idea was also revised and elaborated by some more Italian people.
And basically they arrived at a kind of placid style division system that finds a lot of fortune some places.
Yeah, but I just wanted to mention this because I don't really think that these ideas are
really well known in English speaking countries.
So basically, these were Italians and they wrote in Latin.
So the ideas were not in widespread circulation everywhere.
But of course this is something that practitioners,
practicing astrologers should ask themselves with question,
whether they are happy with degree-based a lot of fortunate lots in general,
or they say that even simpler version of sign-based
Lots are enough, which were quite enough in many ancient horoscopes,
and the majority of ancient horoscopes actually,
or they would also like to go further and to come up with some more sophisticated
and mathematically and cosmologically more sound solutions.
Okay, but the point also here is I would like to repeat that lots don't move.
Okay, even if they look like moving, they don't move.
These are indicators.
So let me summarize what I said about a fortunate fate.
And then we can move on and it is good because we are over the half of my expose now.
So what my point was that at the beginning or originally,
we had a lot of problems.
It is very likely that fortune was a lunar phase indicator in some ways or and a lunar
We had a lot of problems.
or solar counterpart of the ascendant for Nec Hapso.
I don't think that for Nec Hapso a lot of fortune which I think he wanted to reverse
by night.
I don't think that.
was always lunar. With fate added, fortune was formulated as a lunar lot and fate is a solar lot
but strictly speaking this is valid only for the day because if we reverse the formula for the night
then fortune will become solar and fate will become lunar.
by the night. Apart from this, we can study the use of a lot of fortunate fate in many
horoscopes. We can see how they were used for thought reading,
and
how they were used in length of life calculations,
how they were used for
thought reading,
and
how they were used for
thought reading,
in the so-called zodiacal releasing.
and
how they were used for
thought reading,
But of course, in many original horoscopes
don't have any interpretations, only raw data.
But one thing is clear that fortune is not a
at least fortune was used by virtually all the astrologers. Okay, now let's see how the
idea of firstly a lot of fortune and then the idea of the two lots were further refined.
Already in the first century,
Dorotheus makes allusions to two further lots which I will call desire and constraint.
Okay, so desire is the lot that is called also the lot of love or lot of arrows.
and constraint is the lot of necessity or it is called "ananke" in Greek.
I chose this translation "desire" and "constraint"
because of course that could be
[inaudible]
translations as well. But because I wanted to highlight that in this case we have
strongly philosophical concepts behind these two additional lots. And also that they refer to
to something that can be contrasted.
So desire in this case means attraction
to something or someone.
So it means that even if there is a drive
that comes from inside or if it's an outward attraction,
it's not a direct attraction.
the individual is moving towards something.
Whereas constraint means right the opposite.
It means the inability to move towards something
or if it is possible, it means moving backwards
or inwards in some ways.
And of course it can be something that comes from inside as well.
So that's, let's say, it's a conscious decision maybe, or even non-conscious,
self-imposed constraint, but it can be also an outward constraint,
like something pushing back.
Now, I mentioned that these are found in Dorotheus, but you might say that, oh, this is surprising
because I have read Dorotheus's Arabic version and I haven't found any reference to desire
and constraint in Ander-Eli names.
This is not a coincidence because, as you might know,
there are some sections that are missing from the Arabic Dorotheus that were demonstrably
there in the Greek original.
These sections
are
not
covered the treatment of activity or action which is completely absent from the Arabic version
there.
They are not there.
but most notably they cover the question of friendship and enmity and in this case
It looks like Dorotheus used as much as we can reconstruct it from some stray Greek fragments.
Dorotheus used these lots in the context of analyzing friendship and enmity.
Unfortunately, we don't have extensive fragments to see what he meant.
All we have, or the most extensive we have is the so-called Book of Aristotle that relied
on Dorotheus in some ways, and which looks like to be a...
[pause]
and Latin translation of something written by Alandar Zagar in the 7th century or so,
a Persian astrologer.
But it is quite likely that the Lot of Desire was designed to show indications for friendship
and constraint for enmity.
Now, what are they? The big question.
Desire is
from fortune to fate
and constraint inversely
Yeah, and both are reversed by night.
Okay, so both are reversed by night and for the night we would have this interval and
we will project it from the ascendant.
So we will find some place here.
So here we will find desire.
And we will have.
constraint here. Yeah. So we can, we can do something like we measure this distance and
Okay.
we cause distance from here, uh, from, from the ascendant and we can, we can get here.
So we will have constraint here. Yeah.
What you see is that the midpoint between the Ascendant and Desire is Fortune and the midpoint between the Ascendant and Constraint is Fortune.
Fate
Yeah
Okay, so this is not a coincidence
Because this follows from the calculation from the formula itself
in the reality
by day
desire is a sort of a double fate and
and
Double fortune
by night. Here we see that it is a double fortune and this follows from the calculation.
Now constraint works inversely. So it is a double fortune by day and a double fate by night.
And if we look at their motion which is a virtual motion as I said so they don't really
appears real motion. Then by the double reversing, and by double reversing I mean that their
constituent parts, that is fortune and fate, are reversed by night, and then the lots themselves,
desire and constraint.
are reversed by night again.
They do not switch by night.
So they have a double speed motion,
a virtual motion as compared to the lots of fortunate fate.
Which means that within a lunar month,
they will have two complete circles.
So they will be at the new moon,
they will be at the ascendant.
But they will be at the Ascendant again at Full Moon, unlike Fortunate Fate which are
on the Descendant at Full Moon.
Now there are a few horoscopes surviving from antiquity that used the
a lot of desire and constraint.
Horoscope
And these are found in Dorian Greenbaum's book
in Appendix 10c.
But actually from these proscos we don't really learn
too much about the use of these slots because
the majority of these handful of horoscopes only give us the positions but not the interpretations.
So the only horoscope from antiquity that have an interpretation utilizes only desire and this is
the horoscope of Constantine VII, the Byzantine Empire, emperor.
And here it is analyzed for friendship,
but it is a very brief passage
that you can read in my translation.
But there is an interesting use of the lot of desire
or constraint, which is described by violence.
Valence says that there is a lot of foundation and this lot of foundation is identical to
either desire or constraint depending on which of them is found under the horizon.
So if it is desired, then desire is going to be under the lot of foundation.
And if it is constrained, then it is constrained.
Here in this horoscope, you will see that this is desire that is found under the horizon.
So if we go with violence, then we should choose desire as the lot of foundation.
which Valens uses in a handful of horoscopes to show eminence and success in life.
Now the interesting thing is that Firmicus also has
a
reference to a lot of foundation. But his formula is identical to the formula of desire,
which is otherwise problematic as well because of...
Vermicose is...
is a source that describes the formula of constraint or desire and the formula of desire
for constraints. So basically he exchanges the two formulas.
Now it is quite possible that Firmicus's information here is corrupt because this is a section
even if it is original, it looks like there was a sort of,
this idea was not violence is owned,
but somehow either desire and constraint or constraint
or desire itself was also conceptualized.
as a lot of foundation, which as the name suggests, something really important for the nativity.
Now we could speculate about this and I guess that there have already been some speculations
whether this should be something meaningful for the natives, whether there are a lot of foundation
positive or to constraint, which is something unwanted.
But the fact that these lots are still
lunar phase indicators imply that there will be
a certain rule that is not true.
in whether desire or constraint is the lot of foundation.
And this rule is very simple.
In the first and the third quarter of the month,
constraint will be foundation,
but in the second and fourth quarter, desire.
Okay, now we see that this is the fourth quarter of the month.
No surprise, desire is under the horizon and desire
is going to be the lot of foundation.
Okay, but apart from this thing,
uh,
We could also ask ourselves the question that how the set of two lots, a lot of fortune
and a lot of fate is extended to a set of four lots.
Okay, but for this, let me go back to the meaning of a lot of fortune and to let me
clear my debt of not having spoken about the lot of faith, its meaning actually.
But at least it will give me the primary opportunity to show you how
the
This thinking goes to the inclusion of desire and constraint as well.
Okay, so we started with fortune actually.
And I told you that
Fortune as an indicator was used to give some indications about the body, about health,
about life in general, and also about success.
So we could say that if there is a sort of just one single lot, and we call it the lot of fortune,
then this lot of fortune is an indicator of well-being in general.
yeah but the the name uh if it is contrasted with fate
will specifically mean something that happens
without our choice in the outer world, right?
So as we also speak about luck,
and when we talk about luck,
we always mean something that is not under our own control,
that just happens to us, yeah?
Of course, we could say that everything that is found
in the horoscope should show something that happens
Yeah, but in the case of fortune,
this is especially emphasized.
Now this whole idea related to fortune and fate
seemed to be originally Egyptian,
but Egyptian and Greek thinking met with each other.
And somehow the Greek concept of immutable fate met with the Egyptian and Oriental idea of negotiable fate.
And this is how...
astrology with its own jainist faces was developed.
Because on one hand, astrologers tend to emphasize that the fate,
the destiny in general, indicated by a birth chart is immutable.
[no audio]
So nobody can transcend their their nativity.
But on the other hand, the very existence of inceptions and magical practices suggests that somehow fate is still negotiable.
Now, as it looks, the lot of fate.
was a sort of a counterpart in the way that it was in some ways similar to the indication
of faith by saying that whereas...
Fortune is about material wealth,
faith is about spiritual wealth,
and whereas fortune is material success,
Fate is more like spiritual development or character development.
If you look at some texts, you see that character in general, if it was investigated at all,
was mostly investigated through fate.
The lot of faith because in this case faith was something was imagined something that is is a sort of.
Diety living in the individual.
That in some some some ways.
guides this individual.
I'm.
And its guidance can be accepted or can be denied.
So in some ways, fortunate fate represents something
out of the individual, the sort of random
events of the outer world, that is fortune,
and the inner reality of the individual,
which is indicated by fate.
Of course, this is too complex because
I don't think that there was a single understanding
of these concepts necessarily.
As I said, we see, and if you read Greenbaum's book
about the diamond, then you will see that how many
different concepts are there.
ideas of different cultures were amalgamated in these concepts.
And if you look at the diamond,
you will see that there are many different concepts
that are there.
And I think it is not just a philosophical question in this case, but also a very, very important interpretative question in this astrology as well.
that different authors and different astrologers
grasped meanings of these lots differently,
but these were in general applicable.
Now, how can we include the existence of desire
and constraint into this frame?
I think the answer is very simple that desire, which is like an inner drive, seems to be an extension of fate, which is, which is this, say the the basic level of desire, basic level, which is the, which is like a voice that that sounds inside your head.
But unless you give your approval to this voice,
no real desire emerges that would push you towards something.
Similarly,
constraint looks like an extension of fortune because fortune is basically an umbrella term
to anything that happens in the outer world that can be positive or negative but it's
about the outer world and these are things that we don't have control on.
But constraint is something that emphasizes the effect of these things on the individual.
On the other hand, and I didn't write it here, we can also argue that
That constraint and desire can come from the other source as well.
What I mean is that desire can be an outward attractor as well.
or constraint can be a consciously chosen decision as well.
And in this way, we could also see the connection of desire to fortune, actually.
and constraint to fate.
And it would make sense in some ways
because if we remain with the reversed lot of fortune
and fate and we cast desire and constraint
in the way they are given,
then it happens by night actually that technically desire will be an extension of fortune like
in this very chart and not the not of fate as we would expect if we went with the conceptualization
I mentioned first.
Okay, so that's all I just wanted to say about these four lots, including the lot of foundation.
I don't actually know what sort of meanings lot of foundation had besides
the foundation.
showing, so being another yet another indicator of success and wealth and well-being, whether
these philosophical ideas were implemented in any ways in actual horoscopic work, but
at least these are some, these are things that are worthy of consideration.
Okay.
Yeah.
Thank you.
But now let me move on to the system that looks like further development of the four
lot system.
And this is the seven lots of Hermes.
Just a moment.
This is something that is I guess it's especially popular in secondary astrological literature.
The so-called seven lots of Hermes or the seven Hermetic lots.
But actually there is only one source that describes them.
or more precisely for a long time there was only one source that described them
and this is Paulus in his chapter 21 according to my own numbering where he refers to a work
titled "All Virtues"
where these seven hermetic lots are described.
They are called hermetic lots because Olin Peodorus,
who comments on Paulus' introduction,
says explicitly that this all-virtues,
this last work was authored by Hermes Trismegistus.
Now, apart from this piece of information, we don't know about the authorship, but of
course this authorship means nothing because it could have been authored by anyone using
the pen name of Hermes if it is true, at least if Olympeo Doris's information is valid.
But at least one thing is quite solid, that this all-virtues was not Polus' own figment,
because these lots already appear in a horoscope found in a papyrus horoscope,
that was found in Egypt somewhere.
and which is dated to 318 so for someone who was born that year no 18 it's 19 sorry it's 319
so it's sorry for for for the typo yeah which suggests that that um
sometime in the third century, yes, in the fourth century, these lots were already in use.
Okay, but I would like to show you that the system of seven lots is obviously a reinterpretation of the four-lot system.
So it must be later than the four lot system.
And if you ask for my opinion,
I think it is inferior to the four lot system
for the reasons I will tell you very quickly.
So it is not very original and I don't really think that it was developed long before the 4th century
even if I don't have any evidence or counter evidence for this claim.
Okay, but let's see what it consists of.
Okay.
[Pause]
Sorry, I didn't mean this lecture series as a basic introduction to astrology.
So I expect some, I often expect you to be familiar with things like lots and things
like that.
And I also expect you to be some sort of
sort of familiar with the seven Hermetic lots,
the seven lots of Hermes.
Okay, but I would like to focus on the important features.
Right?
In this system, there are seven lots
and each lots are code,
a lot of sun, a lot of the moon, a lot of Mercury, a lot of Venus and so forth
covering all the seven planets. No surprise, a lot of fortune is a reversed lot and it is
associated with the moon which is
You see it is a partly contradiction because it has no lunar character at night at all.
A lot of fate is associated with the sun.
The same problem here.
And we have a desire that is associated between us.
A lot of love.
Which would make sense in some ways
But the lot of constraint or necessity is associated with mercury
Here I sense some
Dumbling of logic because I don't really
see the the the the the relationship the connection between Mercury and and necessity in any ways.
Yeah, and there are three more lots introduced for Mars Jupiter and Saturn the so called lots of
audacity victory and divine punishment.
Yeah, a lot of nemesis.
All right.
Okay, now let's look at the formulas.
Okay.
A lot of fortune is the usual one, a lot of fate is the usual one,
but a lot of desire and constraint are replaced with
some different lots.
a lot of
And then this format, Desire, is from Fate to Venus.
So let's see, we have Fate here, and we have Venus here.
So we will go to the next one.
from here to there yeah but because we are at night so we will have a reversed
version so we will come from Venus to to to fate and we will cause this and we
will find
the lot of desire a lot of lot here
Constraint is from from mercury to
Fortune so normally we would come from here
to fortune
Yeah, but here we also see some reversal so we will come from
Fortune to
"vacuary" which means that we need to project this interval from the sendent
and here we will have a lot of constraint. Here in this version you see that these
lots are symbolized by
circles in which you find the symbol of the associated planet. So here this is fortune,
this is fate, this is desire and love, this is constraint or necessity, this is divine punishment,
this is victory and this is bravery or audacity, whatever you like.
Yeah.
Now, as you see that desire is projected from fate
and constraint is projected to fortune,
this might suggest that whoever developed this scheme,
still remembered the relationship between fate and desire and fortune and constraint.
Maybe. I don't know.
But the thing is that if you look at the formulas a little bit closer,
Then it was discovered that the resulting, so the calculations are really odd.
Okay.
So if you look at the diurnal formula of desire.
and you just resolve it. I mean you write down the formula and you write down okay what
Okay.
So if you look at the diurnal formula of desire.
it means to be fate. Then what you get is again a lunar phase indicator which is fine
but in this case
[no audio]
this is a lunar phase indicator projected from Venus.
Okay so this lunar phase indicator is not projected from the ascendant but it looks
it is like projected from Venus. Yeah so basically what I mean here is
that I can't show it to you now because this is a nocturnal chart but here is the sun and
here is the moon and this inter-wall is projected from
the moon.
Venus and this is how you actually get the the lot of desire and it is always
projected toward the the moon resulting in a lot
that is always very close to the Moon.
Actually, it is as close to the Moon
as Venus is close to the Sun.
And we know that the Venus Sun distance
cannot be bigger than 48 degrees.
It means that by day,
the hermetic lot of desire will be always in a maximum distance of 48 degrees from the Moon.
It is not seen here and that is just a coincidence that in this nocturnal chart you find
desire here but otherwise this is true.
What is also funny thing that the same applies to constraint but in this case everything works with Mercury.
And this is for the night version.
So here
we have the night version.
The lot of constraint is going to be a lunar phase indicator again.
And here we have the night version.
And this lot will always be very close to Mercury, sorry, to the Moon, as close as Mercury
must be close to the Sun, which is like 20,000 feet.
28 degrees, sometimes considerable less than 28 degrees.
So it is no surprise that you find mercury here.
Now, this is an interesting coincidence.
And this is the result of the fact that the ascendant
appears in the resolved formula twice,
but for the second occurrence,
the longitude of the ascendant is subtracted. So basically the ascendant
disappears from the formula and this is how you get these odd results.
And the fact
that there is a maximum elongation between the Sun and Venus and the Sun and Mercury
results or makes this, causes this odd result that these two lots are always close to the Moon.
I mean,
by always I mean that the desire by day and constraint by night is always close to the moon.
For the other lots, either the logic of desire or constraint are used.
victory which is a sort of a benefic lot let's say follows the logic of desire the lot of venus
and the malefic lots follow the logic of constraint
Now, this is something that was further analyzed by Chris Brennan in his article about the
rationals of lots.
So I don't really want to go on with this, but I just wanted to highlight that how odd
behavior these lots of desire and constraint have in some charts.
But speaking of this, I would also like to tell you what it means for the nocturnal charts
in the case of desire and diurnal charts in the case of constraint.
Now this is good.
at this time it is going to be really convoluted. So this is really going to be really complex.
In this case the inter-wall from the planet, I mean from Mercury or from Venus, is projected from
fortune or fate.
Yeah, so if you look
We are we have a nocturnal chart
So we will look at Venus
We will see
the the distance from
Venus to the ascendant
Okay, once again, Venus to the ascendance, right?
And we will project this interval from fate
because we are at night, so we will have this
and project this from fate, so that's how we will get this.
Okay.
Say if that was a Dianoid chart we could also play this with Mercury,
a project thing from Fortune.
But what we see here is that
that this is a mess.
the
This is a complete mess, right?
And what you really see here is that the diagonal version
of these lots, which look sort of nice and symmetrical
on the paper, if you just look at the formulas,
and the nocturnal behavior of these dots are completely different from each other.
So there is not even an explanation why the mercury should be associated with
a lot of constraint or necessity at all.
Yeah. And, and even if we even if we there are a lot of people who like this system that there are seven lots and they have really evocative names like victory and and courage and something like that.
Hmm.
It seems that the people who develop that.
Yeah.
had already forgotten any sort of logic
that can be behind the lots.
So it was just a combination that,
okay, maybe we remember that a desire
has something to do with fate.
Okay, so let's put fate into this formula.
And we also go that, okay,
If the third lot is the lot of love and it should be associated with the Venus, then there is mercury
missing, so mercury should be associated with a necessity, a constraint, and we should use
fortune in its formula or something like that.
And then came the other one.
And the other one and the other one,
so finally resulting in this whole set of seven lots.
Okay, I don't know,
but it looks really, really artificial for me.
Maybe you say that it is not so artificial,
for me it looks like very artificial.
And the thing is,
that apart from this horoscope that I mentioned that was cast for 318 sorry 19 and 18 that's 19
right apart from this horoscope where it is just tabulated and no interpretation is found we never
see this
this scheme in any other horoscopes. So it looks like that was a tradition with a sort of limited
success that was now in some places in Egypt. It was now to Paulus and from Paulus it was borrowed
by others like Olympiodorus and before him by Vitorius who basically repeats
in
everything related to these lots from polis. And somehow this lore was also transmitted to the
the
to Islamic test Rogers because vestiges of this system are found discovered in
in Islamic sources like Abu Ma'sharf's introduction.
Okay, so these were the lots as we can see the gradual development.
Only fortune, then fortune and fate, then the four lots and the system of seven lots.
What remains?
is going to be really, really shorter. First, I would like to talk about personal lots and
their problems especially. And then I will just go through the main issues with the other
lots to get to the conclusion. So.
Let's see.
Personal lots.
By personal lots, I mean the lots of father, mother,
siblings, children, marriage, and illness
that are discovered in a number of sources.
I just chose these ones because these appear
in more than, so in multiple,
sources that are not related to each other. Maybe we could add a lot of slaves, that is Mercury,
Moon, Lot, and that which is also found in unrelated sources in Dorotheus and Firmicus.
But
These are the seven lots that are commonly found in different sources, different Hellenistic sources.
And I call them personal lots because
we see the overlap between the meaning of these,
the names of these lots and some indications of the places.
topics associated with the places. Because we have places of illness, we have a place of illness,
we have a place of marriage, we have place of children, we have place of siblings, and we have
a place of parents.
even if there is no separate place for father and the mother,
still it looks like these core lots
are for the same topics
that are also analyzed through the places.
Okay, there is only one thing I just want to mention related to this, that you know there is this later tradition I guess, that's an Islamica tradition that associates the seventh place with the mother.
Mm-hmm.
This is a misunderstanding.
So basically, I think this is a misunderstanding of Ptolemy's obscure words, which in the chapter
on siblings says that what he says basically is like looking at the children of the mother
and and in this description.
It.
it sounds like he wants to look at the seventh place, so the mid heaven for the mother, but it
is not true. Actually what he says is that from the mother's place we look at the mid heaven because
this place will symbolize
the children of the mother, so basically siblings.
But still, this is a very strong tradition in Islamic astrology and early modern astrology,
and even in modern traditional astrology that the father is the fourth place and the mother is the tenth.
[pause]
This didn't exist in Hellenistic astrology, so parents belonged to the fourth place.
[silence]
Of course, there was another tradition that associated the father with the ninth place, but this is found only in Valence.
So going back to the mainstream,
These are some personal lots and these personal lots are all projected from the ascendant.
And in these personal lots we can discover the use of basically all the planets but Mercury.
So in the case of father, the projection is from the distances from the sun to Saturn, and this is reversed.
For the mother, from Venus to the moon, and it is reversed.
For the siblings, from Saturn to Jupiter, and in some sources it is reversed.
In other sources, it is not reversed.
or children from Jupiter to Saturn.
And again, there is a different opinion between sources,
whether it should be reversed or not.
The same reversing question occurs for the marriage
for men and women, for the marriage for men,
the distances from Saturn to Venus,
for women from Venus to Saturn,
And for illness it is fine, it is reversed and from Saturn to Mars the Dyna formula is this way.
So it is very nice. Now let's try to look at the logic, what we can make of it.
I think it is, we can state that the idea behind the
formulas of father and mother,
that we say without the lot of, so father and mother,
clearly come from the logic of fortune.
Because there are some planetary significator
associated with the parents.
These planetary significators are used in these formulas.
So that is sun and Saturn for father,
and Venus and Moon are for the mother. So what we see here is that the light that is associated
with the parent remains in the formula in the place where it is and the other one is replaced
with the other planet associated with the parent.
So if we go back for a moment, the lot of fortune is from the sun to the moon, so the
sun remains but the moon is replaced with Saturn for the father.
But for the mother, the moon remains and the sun is replaced with Venus.
And of course we reverse it as we reverse the Lot of Fortune.
So I would say that this is quite straightforward and we can also say that
...
that the logic was sort of consistent in this case.
The same consistent thinking is tested
in the case of illness in which the lights
are not visible, but the light is visible.
both lights are replaced with the malefic of the faction
So the light is visible,
but the light is visible.
identical to the light
so once again
normally
we would have a fortune from the sun to the moon
we replace the Sun with the diurnal malefic which is Saturn and we replace the Nocturnal Moon with the Nocturnal malefic with Mars.
So we have illness which is a reverse lot.
It makes sense because
If lights, if the lights are associated with life and health and sickness of course, and
wealth and poverty in general.
then the malefics should focus on the negative side of this, especially when it comes to the enemy of life, which is illness.
The enemy of health, I would say.
The question also occurs that why...
Is there not a corresponding lot with the benefits?
Why we don't have a lot that is from Jupiter to Venus
and reverse by by night.
Well, actually we have not only one under one name,
but on the multiple names,
but it looks like
In the sources that we have, there was not a popular lot that went under this formula,
which is basically the same formula.
If we look at the major versions, it's the same formula as violence's marriage lot would
be.
Yeah, but it is also possible that this violence is marriage lot that is from Jupiter to Venus
is corrupt in the manuscripts because otherwise than the usual lot formula for marriage lot
is from Saturn.
to Venus and not from Jupiter to Venus. So Valens is either
decenter and he has some different idea or the otherwise quite corrupted Valens manuscript
has Valens slot in the wrong way. I don't know. We can discuss this.
Okay. Okay, but let's move on and let's see what else we have.
Marriage. The marriage laws.
If you look at the marriage lots for women and men, you see that basically these are
the same but in reversed version. So that's why I guess there are some authors who say that
if basically these two lots are the reversed versions of each other,
then they shouldn't be reversed by night. So we should stay with from Saturn to Venus
for men by night and we should do the same for the women's lot.
But of course it is not something that everybody agrees with.
But what if we look at these formulas closer, what we see is that the true planets associated
with the parents are used.
Okay.
So you know, the non-luminary for the father is Saturn.
The non-luminary for the mother is Venus.
marriage lots. Okay.
Non reversing works to show how or under what circumstances the couple meet.
Yeah, that, that makes sense. I would say that, um, and the,
the logic of these lots, um, uh, suggests that, um, these,
um,
lot pairs, so at least for man, for we can say it for marriage, non reversing would be
would be more beneficial than than reversing. Anyways, it is interesting to see that in
this marriage lot, the true planets associated with the parents are used. So we have natural
of women and men in general and whereas in the case of women the natural significator
be Venus it's okay but the natural significator of man is not Saturn but the Sun. So
um
This is interesting why in a marriage lot, not, let's say, not men and women are represented in this way, but more like in some ways potential parents.
But maybe we could say that this is because the marriage lot was intended to be not a lot of marriage in the sense of romantic partnership, but in the sense of reproducing under a legal framework.
So this is an interesting thing here.
It's also interesting to think about it, to speculate whether if valence is a marriage lot.
with Jupiter is genuine and he really intended this then why Jupiter here? That's uh I don't have any
answers to this question so I can only say I don't know I've got no real idea for that
okay but if we go on um
Yeah, if we go on, right.
Then some, we can see some logic in this whole system, but we will see that, you know,
with the siblings and children will also encounter some problems.
The logic in general, at least for these lots we have seen, I mean for lots of the parents,
for marriage lots and for illness, looks like that
the parents are not going to be able to do anything about it.
If there are two planets associated with a certain concept or certain person, like the
malefics with illness or Venus and the moon with the mother, then in the lot formula both
these planets must be featured.
And the logic should follow the logic of the Lot of Fortune in the way that if the if the these two planets belong to different factions,
then the two planets are not the same.
So like Saturn is diurnal and Mars is nocturnal, then the diurnal formula will be from the diurnal planet to the nocturnal planet and by night, reversely.
and the logic should follow the logic of the Lot of Fortune in the way that if the if the these two planets belong to different factions,
But if the factions are the same,
like in the case of a lot of Mother because the two planets associated with the Mother are the Moon and Venus
and both are Nocturnal planets.
Then in the formula we also again imitate the formula of Fortune.
but the moon remains in its place or in her place.
So it's going to be to the moon and from the other planet.
Of course, a question occurs that what can we do
if following this logic,
this we are trying to extend this that following this logic we have let's say whatever concept we
have on our mind has two planets two associated planets but they belong to the same faction
to the same sect, but neither is light,
then how should we work with them?
This is one problem.
But the other thing is that if there
is a single planet that is associated with a concept,
then we can't do anything about it.
And I would say that this might be the case for the marriage lot.
So we can't do anything about it.
And I would say that in the marriage lot,
this is the case for the marriage lot.
A single planet would be a planet that is associated with the wife or associated with
And I would say that in the marriage lot,
the husband.
Then we present both parties in the formula.
in the way that for the marriage for men,
we look from husband to wife
and for wives from wife to husband.
Yeah, but this would work only if we could find
reasonable explanation for the presence of Saturn which stands here for the Sun.
But I also mentioned that the logic might be that in this case we also see
two planets. And these two planets are basically parent planets here. So basically what we
see here for the marriage lot is not the marriage lot in the sense that it is not about a romantic
partnership, but it's about the survival of the human species maybe.
There can be other explanations why Saturn is presented here. Other explanations can include the problem that if it was a lot from the Sun to Venus, it would limit the
the position in the horoscope because we know that it would mean that let's say
this marriage lot would always fall into a sign, into a degree which is close to the ascendant,
not farther than 48 degrees.
which basically means that these lots would always fall into the 11th, 12th, 1st, 2nd or 3rd places and not to any other places.
But this speculation is contradicted by the fact that Valence has
his own special marriage lots.
And for the marriage of men, he does use a lot that is taken from the Sun to Venus.
And he does, he makes a similar lot with Mars and the moon for women.
Which is an interesting thing, and I don't really want to go on speculating on this, but if we compare these two lots, then in the case of the
the
a lot of marriage for men, the featuring Venus and the Sun shows that it's something like
about women-men social relationship, so as it is seen on the level of the society.
But if it is, if we look at the,
the female counterpart of that, the lot of marriage for women with Mars and the Moon,
it looks like it's more like a sexual lot, which is about
about
actual
impregnation, fertilization or something like that with Mars and the moon representing male and female sexuality.
...
Anyways, it is really speculative to talk about the logic of these lots if the pool is so small.
So these are just my attempts to try and see some logic in the formulas.
But if we look at the lots of siblings and children, I guess that
--
Maybe I'm wrong, but we run out of logical explanations.
[Pause]
As you have seen, these lots for siblings and children are Saturn-Jupiter lots,
and these are reversed versions of each other.
Now, the question occurs for children.
Okay, for children Jupiter is an apt significator because Jupiter in general is associated with children.
It is associated with fertility and that's why it is also
a significator of children or blessing of children. But what does Saturn do here? If
we say that we should look at a relationship between potential children and their parents,
Then why not say from Sun to Jupiter, from Father to Children or from Saturn to Jupiter
and why from Jupiter to Saturn in this case?
Not to speak about the fact that if this is a female nativity, then of course we should
look at a lot from the mother to children, like from the moon or Venus to Jupiter.
But why the opposite way?
I guess that the problem is even deeper when we come to the siblings.
And okay, normally, if we talk about siblings in the sense of, of brothers, normally, the primary
planetary significator is Mars. But especially if it is about younger brothers, then Mercury also
can play this role. So this is neither
Saturn or Jupiter? Actually, Saturn maybe could play the role of a significator of an elder brother.
Yeah, especially a much elder brother, right? But still nothing really explains why it is a
lot that is cast from Saturn to Jupiter.
And why are they pairs of each other?
Because in the case of marriage for women and marriage for men, it's okay to see that
basically we're talking about the different sides of the same issue, the same concept.
But
being having siblings, having children are are conceptually very different things.
So if they are if they are each other's counterparts, then I could also speculate then.
Okay, then to focus on the most important family relations and
and
Why aren't wives and mothers are counterparts of each other, maybe, or husbands and fathers, let's say.
So, speculating for some more logical lot possibilities for brothers,
a lot from Mercury to Mars because Mercury is the non-nocturnal
natural significator and Mars is the nocturnal significator that would work perfectly.
I don't really want to suggest that oh this is the right version
I just want to show you that somehow, and maybe this is an illusion, it looks like there
were many, many strata in the development of the lots.
And whereas we can see in some cases that
If our reconstructed logic for the lot of fortune and for the derived lots is something to be trusted,
then we can see then in some strata the logic of the other lots were close to this logic or was
But in other strata, different considerations were employed.
And in some cases, me, I can speak of myself.
I am unable to crack the logic of these inventions.
And this is true for
the
for the lots of siblings and children.
And partly it is also true for the seven hermetic lots.
Yeah.
So all in all, what I would like to say is that
if someone
is seeking a sort of a universal logic that could be employed for all lot formulas, then
this person will
[pause]
it will be disappointed because it looks like there never was solitary universal logic for lots.
So it also means that it would be pointless to move on and to look at other lot formulas because
there are
hundreds of lot formulas.
And if even if we focus on Hellenistic formulas, then we
will have at least 100 different lots, which might be partly
might be later maybe.
So I would like to focus on the most important things only.
So this is going to be the beginning of the end
of my presentation, which is really timely.
So if we, and the first thing is that the so-called
trivial lots and by trivial lots, I mean the ones
that feature
the planets in the formula. There are 42 possible combinations with the seven planets. And
each of these possible combinations are used for formulas for multiple lots.
By multiple lots I mean that there are different names, different areas of suggested use.
We don't know if they were used in this way or not because the use of these trivial lots in actual surviving horoscopes is very limited.
Yeah, but in many cases we really see that these lot formulas follow arbitrary logic.
So local logic maybe, or they don't follow any discernible logic.
There are also opposite lots, which is like
a
There are no individual lots, but the oppositions of existing lots are used to analyze something.
You have seen this because I mentioned them in my first presentation for the foster father,
for adultery, and for the usurper.
which were the opposites of the lots of the father, the lots of marriage, the lot of marriage, and the lot of the king.
Sorry. There are many alternative formulas for the same
lot. I mean, there is a name that a lot of something a lot of purchase maybe.
And in different sources, you can see different, sometimes radically different lot formulas.
And in many cases, maybe you can, you can suspect that these are the results of some
always the best explanation. What is even more surprising that even there are some alternative
formulas for well-established personal lots.
So sometimes we have an author who says that there is a different lot of father, lot of mother,
not for the lot of mother actually, but a lot of father, lot of children.
[no audio]
lot of siblings, lot of marriage,
multiple lots for marriage from different perspective,
things like that.
So it looks like there was no access to some common sources,
But they were still eager to derive their own lots.
And this is quite obvious that they had different understandings.
What is also interesting is that there are some lots, there are some
...
some inexplicable gaps, I would say.
So whereas there are lots of many different things
which are even difficult to translate
because there is no context for these words
and we don't know in what sense they are basically used.
So that's why in different translations of the same lots exist in different editions,
different translations of the same text can feature really different interpretations.
But still, there are for example no now lots of sisters, no now lots of grandparents,
other significant family relations and things like that.
um
So yeah, so we have many, many, many, many interesting lots
and they pose their own problems.
Now, I mentioned that these other lots--
are really rarely found in horoscopic examples.
And if we look at the original documents,
so horoscopes surviving in Papyri,
then all we can find is an unreversed marriage lot,
which is found in one Egypt,
Egyptian papyrus and which might have been found into others which are true fragmentary.
Maybe a lot of activity can be found but it is uncertain.
And there is one papyrus where in which many different lots
were listed, but actually we can't really identify them.
So because this papyrus is broken.
If we look at literary horoscopes,
which are found in the works of different authors,
Then basically these other lots of these other lots, so not the four principal lots and things
like that.
And the ones that I mentioned also the seven hermetic lots featured in one horoscope.
Then the sole example what we find in Hellenistic horoscopes proper is Dorotheus' siblings in
one horoscope of his.
But fortunately we have the Emperor Constantine's nativity where many of Dorotheus' lots are
used.
in the interpretation so we can at least study their use.
Right.
There are even more exotic lots
because in some lot formulas, as I said,
there are even more exotic lots
an angle or its ruler, the prenatal lunation or its lord or a given degree can also stand.
because in some lot formulas, as I said,
there are even more exotic lots
because in some lot formulas,
And as I also promised, I told you that I would speak about
the
some whole sign lots, which were developed precisely for whole sign lots.
And it looks like Dorotheus's livelihood, a lot of livelihood,
which is from the lot of the second place to the second place itself,
is one of these lots, because in Dorotheus's
work there is no allusion whatsoever to the cost so if it is not the first
degree that is understood for the second place its first degree then we have no
idea how we could
calculate a degree-wise lot for the Dorotheus's livelihood.
The same is true for violence's exaltation because
all the violence tells about the exaltation degrees
later on in book three.
of the exaltation degree.
So, the exaltation degree is the degree of the exaltation
He actually in book two
he just instructs the reader
to look at the governing light.
So the sun by day and the moon by night.
And
and count the signs from this light to the sign of its exaltation
and to cast this interval from the ascendant.
We also have some other
examples of this.
projection points. So Dorotheus and Valens have lots that are cast not from the, from
So, we have the example of the
light of the ascendant.
the Ascendant but from the moon.
from Saturn and from Venus, basically.
And in these cases, I guess I'm still puzzled why this is done in this way.
So I don't really know in these cases why they deviate from the usual practice.
of projecting lots from the Ascendant.
But at least in the case of Dorotheus' death,
which is from the Moon to the 8th place,
and projected from Saturn, again,
the Moon is projected from the 8th place,
obviously a whole sign lot, we can rearrange this formula as looking at the
distance from the moon to Saturn in some ways, let's say
the moon, which is the quickest of the planets,
and which is associated with health and life and change and growth
and generation.
And we also look at Saturn,
which is the slowest, the end, death, destruction,
and we project this from the eighth place,
which is associated with death itself.
So we can perhaps find some local logic here
if we really want to.
But as I mentioned, there is no comprehensive logic that can be found.
And also we have basically no surviving horoscopic examples of how they used.
these lots. The only exception is violence is exaltation, which is used by him, and
zine is anonymous in some horoscopes of his.
So with this, I would like to get to the end
of my presentation and to come up with the final reflections.
The first of all is that
lots are not real. So if someone prefers astronomical reality and wants to base their practice on
astronomical reality, then
[pause]
Maybe the only lot that could be derived, could be accepted is the Lot of Fortune, understood as a sort of lunar ascendant.
Or even it should be eliminated as well.
Still, I guess that many astrologers
...
would like to include lots in their practice, especially because they can add more insight
into the issues or they can provide some means of differentiation
and
when the places themselves do not provide this opportunity.
For example, discerning the mother from the father,
which could be attained by looking
at natural significators as well.
But maybe there are some astrologers who would say that more refined insights can be reached if plots are also considered.
So all in all, I don't think that it would be too much to claim that
Lots can be really useful for astrological practical work.
But if someone goes with lots,
should make some considerations, I guess, not to be inconsistent.
For example, decide whether fortune and fate should be unreversed lots and in this case
fortune will be lunar under every circumstance and fate will be solar.
or they should be reversed but then understood as switching lunar and solar corrector by night.
Also, it should be considered whether of the traditional lots
The hermetic calculations are accepted or discarded. What one does with lots like siblings and children
and the other trivial or exotic lots.
Also, the question occurs that whether traditional lot formulas should be accepted without criticism
or even if there are some noun formulas coming from any source, like some obscure list of
lots.
These should be accepted or these should be discarded and the astrologer should calculate
Okay.
So, let's go back to the question.
or devise lot formulas by themselves.
for a given purpose on the spot.
Which might be necessary if someone wants to fill the gap
and wants to
(murmurs)
device lots for for grandparents or for six sisters or uncles or cousins or something like that.
And finally, the question also occurs whether lots should be reserved for birds. And of course, if someone extends their practice to
mundane astrology, general astrology to general astrological charts,
or they should be also included in, let's say, horror charts,
where the use of lots is basically, apart from the lot of fortune,
is unseen among modern practitioners.
[silence]
Of course, I can't provide any answers to these questions, but I think this is very
important to make individual decisions on this and to go with it to avoid inconsistency
and haphazard arbitrary decisions made for different horoscopes.
So finally, the bibliography.
I just want to say a couple of words about the sources that I found are most important.
There is this essay by Chris Brennan about the reasons of how the seven hermetic lots were
devised. I guess it's interesting to see, to read for those who are interested in this
topic.
Dorian Greenbaum provided a list of horoscopes with fortune and fate.
which is almost comprehensive, at least it was really comprehensive at that time,
which can be interesting to see for those who want to study the use of these lots in actual horoscopes.
In her book, The Diamond in Hellenistic Astrology,
The horoscopes using desire and constraint are also found.
But this is the best monograph on this issue of daemon, fate, genius, inner voice, and how it is
conceptualized in astrology in relation to fortune.
She also has a recent article under the title "Abhumashara and the Tradition of Planetary Lots in Astrology"
in which the
She investigates the background of Abu Ma'shar's list of the seven planetary lots, which are
partly the four principal lots and partly the seven hermetic lots.
So this is also an interesting and detailed investigation.
Stefan Heiland's Adriana Genitura contains a lengthy analysis of the sources on the Lotta of Fortune with the primary sources in German.
So it is also
an important source. And finally I would like to highlight Eric Lusby's
blog post and especially his PDF document
about the lots which is today the most comprehensive treatment.
of the lot formulas.
Okay, so that's all.
Thank you very much.